`tabnanny` — Detection of ambiguous indentation
===============================================

**Source code:** [Lib/tabnanny.py](https://github.com/python/cpython/tree/3.13/Lib/tabnanny.py)

---

For the time being this module is intended to be called as a script. However it
is possible to import it into an IDE and use the function [`check()`](#tabnanny.check "tabnanny.check")
described below.

Note

The API provided by this module is likely to change in future releases; such
changes may not be backward compatible.

tabnanny.check(*file\_or\_dir*)
:   If *file\_or\_dir* is a directory and not a symbolic link, then recursively
    descend the directory tree named by *file\_or\_dir*, checking all `.py`
    files along the way. If *file\_or\_dir* is an ordinary Python source file, it
    is checked for whitespace related problems. The diagnostic messages are
    written to standard output using the [`print()`](functions.html#print "print") function.

tabnanny.verbose
:   Flag indicating whether to print verbose messages. This is incremented by the
    `-v` option if called as a script.

tabnanny.filename\_only
:   Flag indicating whether to print only the filenames of files containing
    whitespace related problems. This is set to true by the `-q` option if called
    as a script.

*exception* tabnanny.NannyNag
:   Raised by [`process_tokens()`](#tabnanny.process_tokens "tabnanny.process_tokens") if detecting an ambiguous indent. Captured and
    handled in [`check()`](#tabnanny.check "tabnanny.check").

tabnanny.process\_tokens(*tokens*)
:   This function is used by [`check()`](#tabnanny.check "tabnanny.check") to process tokens generated by the
    [`tokenize`](tokenize.html#module-tokenize "tokenize: Lexical scanner for Python source code.") module.

See also

Module [`tokenize`](tokenize.html#module-tokenize "tokenize: Lexical scanner for Python source code.")
:   Lexical scanner for Python source code.