:   Compile a source file to byte-code and write out the byte-code cache file.
    The source code is loaded from the file named *file*. The byte-code is
    written to *cfile*, which defaults to the [**PEP 3147**](https://peps.python.org/pep-3147/)/[**PEP 488**](https://peps.python.org/pep-0488/) path, ending
    in `.pyc`.
    For example, if *file* is `/foo/bar/baz.py` *cfile* will default to
    `/foo/bar/__pycache__/baz.cpython-32.pyc` for Python 3.2. If *dfile* is
    specified, it is used instead of *file* as the name of the source file from
    which source lines are obtained for display in exception tracebacks.
    If *doraise* is true, a [`PyCompileError`](#py_compile.PyCompileError "py_compile.PyCompileError") is raised
    when an error is encountered while compiling *file*. If *doraise* is false
    (the default), an error string is written to `sys.stderr`, but no exception
    is raised. This function returns the path to byte-compiled file, i.e.
    whatever *cfile* value was used.

    The *doraise* and *quiet* arguments determine how errors are handled while
    compiling file. If *quiet* is 0 or 1, and *doraise* is false, the default
    behaviour is enabled: an error string is written to `sys.stderr`, and the
    function returns `None` instead of a path. If *doraise* is true,
    a [`PyCompileError`](#py_compile.PyCompileError "py_compile.PyCompileError") is raised instead. However if *quiet* is 2,
    no message is written, and *doraise* has no effect.

    If the path that *cfile* becomes (either explicitly specified or computed)
    is a symlink or non-regular file, [`FileExistsError`](exceptions.html#FileExistsError "FileExistsError") will be raised.
    This is to act as a warning that import will turn those paths into regular
    files if it is allowed to write byte-compiled files to those paths. This is
    a side-effect of import using file renaming to place the final byte-compiled
    file into place to prevent concurrent file writing issues.

    *optimize* controls the optimization level and is passed to the built-in
    [`compile()`](functions.html#compile "compile") function. The default of `-1` selects the optimization
    level of the current interpreter.

    *invalidation\_mode* should be a member of the [`PycInvalidationMode`](#py_compile.PycInvalidationMode "py_compile.PycInvalidationMode")
    enum and controls how the generated bytecode cache is invalidated at
    runtime. The default is [`PycInvalidationMode.CHECKED_HASH`](#py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.CHECKED_HASH "py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.CHECKED_HASH") if
    the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable is set, otherwise
    the default is [`PycInvalidationMode.TIMESTAMP`](#py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.TIMESTAMP "py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.TIMESTAMP").

    Changed in version 3.2: Changed default value of *cfile* to be [**PEP 3147**](https://peps.python.org/pep-3147/)-compliant. Previous
    default was *file* + `'c'` (`'o'` if optimization was enabled).
    Also added the *optimize* parameter.

    Changed in version 3.4: Changed code to use [`importlib`](importlib.html#module-importlib "importlib: The implementation of the import machinery.") for the byte-code cache file writing.
    This means file creation/writing semantics now match what [`importlib`](importlib.html#module-importlib "importlib: The implementation of the import machinery.")
    does, e.g. permissions, write-and-move semantics, etc. Also added the
    caveat that [`FileExistsError`](exceptions.html#FileExistsError "FileExistsError") is raised if *cfile* is a symlink or
    non-regular file.

    Changed in version 3.7: The *invalidation\_mode* parameter was added as specified in [**PEP 552**](https://peps.python.org/pep-0552/).
    If the `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable is set,
    *invalidation\_mode* will be forced to
    [`PycInvalidationMode.CHECKED_HASH`](#py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.CHECKED_HASH "py_compile.PycInvalidationMode.CHECKED_HASH").

    Changed in version 3.7.2: The `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable no longer
    overrides the value of the *invalidation\_mode* argument, and determines
    its default value instead.

    Changed in version 3.8: The *quiet* parameter was added.